
Work with multiple files,
including how to move data back and forth between different files, copying & pasting from one file to another, and quickly jumping to another file.  You'll also learn how to view multiple files at the same time using Vim's windowing system.

Use the must-know keyboard shortcuts and how to remember them easily.  You'll actually learn how to "think in Vim" so you don't even have to memorize each and every command, saving you countless hours of work.

Find and replace entire blocks of information within a file.  That includes how to refactor your code by renaming all variables in a file or set of files, reliably.  Of course, you'll learn simple find and replace techniques to replace a word in an entire file and much more.

Cut, copy and paste.  You'll find out how to make the most of Vim's built-in clipboard system, use Vim's clipboard history, and how to access your system's clipboard from within Vim.

Visually select blocks of text and perform edits on those blocks like moving the block, deleting the block, indenting/shifting the block, and more.  You'll understand Vim's text objects so you can quickly select single or multiple words, lines, paragraphs, HTML/XML tags, code blocks, and more.

How to make vertical edits and use Vim's Visual Block Mode.  (Some call this column editing mode or rectangle mode…)

Enable syntax highlighting for source code, configuration files, or any type of file you edit often.  That includes how to customize the color scheme and color code text in Vim.

Employ simple to advanced navigation techniques so you can go exactly to where you need in a file very fast.

Practical application tips such as how to edit source code, scripts, HTML, and more.  You'll find lots of opportunities for practice in this course.

Make the most of the built-in help system to quickly find what you need, all without leaving Vim.
Use MacVim and gVim on Linux and Windows.  This includes learning the advantages and disadvantages of both the textual interface and the graphical interfaces to Vim.

Create, save, and replay macros to normalize data and quickly repeat complicated edits.  You'll learn how to append or prepend text to every line in a text file, how to format one line of text and apply that formatting to a specified area in the file and more.  In short, you'll learn how to automate everything in Vim.

Create custom shortcuts and personalized key mappings.  If you want to create a shortcut for something you do often, you'll find out how to make your life a whole lot easier.

Indent and shift blocks of text.  You'll also learn how to enable auto indentation so you can quickly clean up and prettify your source code.

And more...
